Hopefully I've made you feel sufficiently
gross by writing code in a script tag.
We're gonna put move it into
a different file now but
I just wanted to strip it down
to the most basic thing so
that you could see that there's
no magic going on here.
We're gonna pile the magic on here
as we go further and further.
The first one is going to be looking from
a different JavaScript file, very magical.
So please make a file here called App.js.
Okay, just copy that business.
I'll cut,
get rid of that script tag altogether.
Actually, you will need
a script cuz you'll
need the source = ./App.js, like that.
So, these two can be in either
order it does not matter.
This one has to be last.
So make sure that App.js one is at the
bottom one, needs to be the bottom one.
I'm saying a couple times, just so people
understand has to be the bottom one, okay?
Paste that in here.
You might have wondered what caused all
of my code to rearrange itself, and
make it look nice.
It's a thing called prettier.
I will be showing you how to
use that in three sections.
So for now, if you don't have it
installed just make it look nice and
then I'll show you how to
automatically do that.
So we're gonna create another
class of components here.
We're gonna be creating the Accords.
I'm hopefully will not overuse
that Honda metaphor too much but
I'm entertaining myself so
I'm gonna keep doing it.
Okay, we're gonna make another
function here called Pet.
It's gonna be another function and
it's going to return,
React.createElement.
And we're gonna put in a div here.
Empty object or null,
both of those are fine with me.
And then we are going to
be giving it an array here.
Cuz it's gonna have multiple children so
you have to give it an array of children.
But you also could just do comma
separated without the array.
So could actually just have
multiple parameters and
it would just list those as children.
Again, variable arity here as well.
Let's just do arrays here because
that's actually what JSX does
underneath the hood.
So I'm gonna show you kind of closest to
what our tools are gonna eventually end up
doing for us.
In other words, we're splitting hairs here
and actually, it really doesn't matter.
[LAUGH] createElement,
we're gonna put an h1 here.
It's gonna be an empty object and
we're gonna put the name of our animal.
So you're welcome to put your
own favorite pet in here.
I'm gonna put Luna because she
is objectively the best dog and
also the worst, okay?
And then I'm just gonna clone
that line two times here.
These two, I'm gonna make an h2.
So I made both line 5 here and
line 6, an h2.
And Luna is a dog, and
she is of a breed Havanese.
It rearranged that.
So, we have a div inside of
that div is an array of an h1,
h2 and an h2 with the dog name
of Luna dog and Havanese.
So we have another class of components
here called the Pet component, okay?
So, here in our app,
we're gonna make this an array and
we're gonna move our existing
h1 into here of Adopt Me.
And then we're gonna
have React.createElement,
and we're gonna put a Pet component.
And for good measure,
let's just put three of them.
And it rearranges it again.
So we have a div, that's an array.
The first one is an h1
here of Adopt Me and
then we're creating three
instances of the Pet.
So going back to the rubber stamp analogy,
we're stamping the stamp three times,
okay?
So ask yourself, what do I expect
to see when I go over to the DOM?
So let's just work backwards,
what's gonna get rendered out here?
We have an app, all right, which is this,
so we're gonna render an app out.
That's gonna be a div.
Inside of that div,
there's gonna be an h1 with the Adopt Me.
We're gonna have a cool little
logo that we made before.
And then underneath that we're
gonna have a Pet component.
So we have to go down here and
look at what's a pet, right?
That pet returns a div and
inside of an h1 and h2 and h2,
right, with Luna dog Havanese, right?
We're doing that three times.
So how many times do you think
it's gonna say Luna on the page?
Three times, right?
And it's gonna say dogs three times and
it's gonna say Havanese three times.
Let's go see if that's right.
Luna dog Havanese,
Luna dog Havanese, right?
So, starting to get a little bit further
into the programming milestone is
hopefully starting to see
a little bit like, okay,
I can see where this is starting
to get a little bit more useful.
I still could have written this as
HTML is significantly easier, but
step by step here.
Something I'm gonna call out right now,
is you're gonna see here in your console
some warnings, that's expected, right?
So don't worry about those for now,
I will show you later how to fix those.
But that's just react being
helpful with its developer tools.
If you shipped this and
built it for production,
it would not show you that anymore,
Cuz we're using the development version.
The TLDR of why it's doing
that is by saying hey you're
rendering Pet three times.
And if you tried to swap them I wouldn't
understand if you swapped them.
So therefore, I would destroy everything
and re-render from the bottom up.
So like if you give me a special key that
I can say like is this the same one and
it can detect that and follow that.
Then I'll just move the DOM instead
of creating and destroying it,
which is way faster, right?
It's trying to help you
with that practice.
That's the idea and
I'll show you how to do that.
So, but that's what the warning is about.
Still it'd be really cool if there
are other pets besides Luna.
She is objectively the goodest girl,
right, but
it'd be cool if there were
other pets available for us.
So let's make our Pet component flexible,
as opposed to being just
the Luna component.
Let's make it an actual Pet component.
So this Pet function can accept
something called props, right?
As you might guess properties, is what
that stands for but we all call a prop so
you can just take the props.
So instead of just rendering out
whatever string we put here,
we can actually just say give me
whatever comes in from props.name, okay?
Instead of dog,
we'll have a be props.animal, and
instead of Havanese,
we'll have a be props.breed.
Now this Pet component became flexible,
right?
And now, instead of having to
render the same thing three times,
we can actually use it to
render different things.
And we're gonna use this empty object
that we've been ignoring up until now.
So we're gonna give empty object and
we're gonna say name Luna.
Animal Dog and
breed, Havanese.
And now this is going
to be passed into this.
And we'll actually have some
sort of flexible component here.
So let's go do that two more times here
and we can make three different pets now.
So I'm gonna do the bird that
I had as a child, Pepper.
I was a very creative child, I named
my black and white cockatiel Pepper.
That's not a creative child.
I was like, it looks like pepper
we're gonna call it Pepper.
And Pepper was a cockatiel.
Yeah, and then I named this after
my friend's cat cuz Doink is
objectively the funniest name for
a cat I've ever heard.
It's cuz the cat will just like run into
the wall, Doink just doing the wall again.
Doink is a cat and
Doink was some sort of mixed breed.
I could not tell her where
that cat have ever came from.
From the cat though, okay?
So now you have to ask yourself,
what do I think is gonna happen?
Well, it's gonna be relatively the same
thing but instead of Luna dog Havanese but
underneath that'll have
Pepper Bird Cockatiel and
have Doink Cat Mix underneath it.
Refresh the page and you can see that
is happening exactly the same way,
that we thought it would.
So the flow of information
here is pretty obvious, right?
It's going from the parent component
down to the child component.
Again, one of my favorite things about
React is this is called the one way
data flow, which definitely not and
I think React invented.
But it's definitely a thing that React
popularized that kind of basically every
other framework kind
of adopted after that.
And you'll find that if
you've ever in Angular,
Ember you're gonna find a lot of
things that are very familiar and
that's either because React stole it
from them or they stole it from React.
And everyone stole from computer
scientists in the 70s, and
they stole it from people in like the 60s,
right?
And it's just a chain of people
stealing people's ideas.
In other words, it's all great,
it's all just whatever your
favorite shape of writing it is.
I happen to like the shape.
But yes, data flows from the parent,
the parent being App, right?
App is the parent component of Pet
because the App is rendering Pet, right?
So data flows from
the parent to the child.
So it moves from here to here,
right, via props.
Now you might ask is like,
what happens if I have something that
pet needs to do with App, right?
How does the data flow up?
It doesn't.
And you might say like,
that seems like it's annoying.
And when you're kind of learning the
paradigm it is because sometimes you're,
well, I want to be able to have my child
component affect my parent component.
It's by design that you can't.
If I have a bug inside of App,
I know that pet didn't cause it, right?
By definition, because pet can't
affect App, and therefore,
when I go start debugging, I can just rule
out that entire section of the code and
I don't have to worry about it.
That is great.
[LAUGH] It makes debugging
significantly easier because just
rule out entire sections just
by the way that the app exists.
Now your next question is like, okay,
really how do I make Pet do something?
That it's like there are ways
there's things called context.
There's Redux.
There is other things that
I can show you later, but
it hacks around things
that you have to do.
In general, you want it to work like this.
You want the data to flow one way.
And the other thing is like,
the data's very obvious how it
got from point a to point b.
It's not mysterious how
Luna Dog Havanese got here because I
can see it went in here and came out here.
This was one of my biggest
complaints about AngularJS1,
is that you would have something
bound to the scope and you'd be,
I have no idea where this
changed in the code, right?
If you've ever written any amount of like
AngularJS1, you'll know this to a data
binding pain that I'm talking about,
this change to be something else.
And that could have happened in
the service or the other service or
could have happened in the controller or
could have happened in the model.
There's just a trillion places
that could have happened.
And then React specifically responded to
that kind of pain that that Angular was
causing at the time.
It was magical.
I wrote a lot of really productive
code that no one wanted to
maintain cuz it was terrible, right?
And that's what React were
trying to avoid here.
It's verbose but it does that so that it's
easy to maintain and that's worth it.
Because I'd rather have a harder time
reading the code the first time and
an easier time understanding of the second
time than rather the opposite of
that, right?
That's my point.
React has been meant to be
maintainable over being easy to write.
Youll hear me writing a lot.
That's why I say that like you're gonna
be the same, this could have been done so
much more easily and
it definitely could have been.
But again,
we're the verbosity is by design.
So we've reached our first
checkpoint in the code.
So if you've fallen behind and
I'll show you just kind of here what
it looks like in the course notes.
If you see this little
checkered flag down here,
that means like you've hit a checkpoint.
If you've fallen behind or you just want
to see how I did it, you can click here,
and you can go in and you can see
this is what my App.js looks like.
This is what the index HTML is,
so on and so forth, right?
And if you've fallen behind just copy and
paste all that over.
Where you can just copy the pieces
of code that you had missing or
something useful that I'll
kind of throw out there.
You can use something, I have
Kaleidoscope to happen on this computer.
But some sort of div comparing thing
like Kaleidoscope app is one of them.
That's the one that I use.
It's expensive, but
I actually really like it.
And you can just say,
compare this folder to this folder and
it'll show you like a git diff
between the two of them and
you can see what's changed
between the two different steps.
It's also pretty cool.